# Pytest Marks, Keywords, Parameter IDs and Pytest BDDs Parameterization, Tags

## Bugs and issues regarding marks, keywords and parameter IDs

Effort to fix these: https://github.com/pytest-dev/pytest/projects/1#card-4588520

### Symptoms

#### Tests with single parameterization where values have marks -m doesn't select parameterization

This happens if id's are identical with marks.

`make select_marked_params_with_ids/symptom` runs the following test:

```python
@mark.parametrize(
    ['a'],
    [
        mark.MarkA((1,)),
        mark.MarkB((2,))
    ],
    ids=[
        "MarkA",
        "MarkB",
        ]
    )
def test_overlap_marks_and_ids(a):
    pass
```

Running `py.test` with `-m MarkA` selects 0 tests


##### Work around: Prefix ids

Never let the id namespace overlap with the mark space. I.E.:

prefix ids with "idForMark"

Drawback if running the suite you'll see the test with parameter ids but not the actual mark names:

    test_overlap_marks_and_ids[idForMarkA] - PASSED
    test_overlap_marks_and_ids[idForMarkB] - PASSED

in order to select one of these you need to run

    py.test -m MarkA 

and not:

    py.test -m idForMarkA 

See `make select_marked_params_with_ids/workaround` the result of `py.test -m MarkA`

##### Work around 2: Use -k

You can use:

    py.test -k MarkA

However, -k doesn't support operators: "AND", "OR", "NOT". 
It might also run tests where ids (unintentially having the same name as the mark)


```python
@mark.parametrize(
    ['Mark'],
    [
        (11,)),
    ],
    ids=[
        "MarkA",
        ]
    )
def test_with_id_but_no_marks(a):
    pass
```

`py.test -k MarkA` will select the test. As expected, `py.test -m MarkA` will not select the test. See `make select_marked_params_with_ids/workaround_with_k`. 

##### Work around 3: Introduce a new parameter

Since the issue only occurs for functions with a single parameter. Introducing the dummy parameter helps.

`make select_marked_params_with_ids/workaround_with_dummy` runs the following test:

```python
@mark.parametrize(
    ['a'],
    [
        mark.MarkA((1,)),
        mark.MarkB((2,))
    ],
    ids=[
        "MarkA",
        "MarkB",
        ]
    )
@mark.parametrize(
    ['dummy'],
    [
    ("dummy",)
    ]
    )
def test_overlap_marks_and_ids(a, dummy):
    pass
```

using `py.test` with `-m MarkA`.


#### Using fixtures with parameterization result in exception if used in given statement with parameters used by given statement

`make parameterization_of_fixtures_for_parameterized_given/symptom` runs a scenario test using:

```python
[...]

@fixture(params=["smtp.gmail.com", "mail.python.org"])
def smtp(request):
    return request.param

[...]

@given("I sent an email to <to>")
def i_sent_an_email(to, smtp):
    return "result"
```

fails with if the scenario was generated by scenarios function of pytest bdd
 “Failed: The requested fixture has no parameter defined for the current test."

##### work around

pytest.usefixture put the fixture for the scenario there

```python

@mark.usefixtures("smtp")
@scenario('email.feature', 'Email sending')
def test_email():
    pass
```

This will inject smtp into the functions that scenario wraps and solve the messing fixture parameter.

When use the scenarios function that discovers scenarios and generates tests you can use the pytestmark module variable to make sure these receive the fixture

```python
pytestmark = pytest.mark.usefixtures("smpt")
scenarios("somefolder")
```


#### Pytest-BDD's tags and keywords

When a scenario is tagged in a feature file pytest BDD calls pytest_bdd_apply_tag to let you translate this tag to a pytest mark (or something else)

When you try to decorate the test function with something else than a mark, the property that you choose becomes a mark anyway.

     @scenario
     def test_
    
     def pytest_bdd_apply_tag(tag, func):
         func.__custom = tag


     py.test --m __custom 

will select the test.

#### Pytest-BDD's tags and pytest_generate_tests

pytest_bdd_apply_tag is called before pytest_generate_tests. This means if you apply a mark directly in pytest_bdd_apply_tag and then parameterize the test in pytest_generate_tests each of the parameterization's will have the mark. 

